1.0-2.0-2.0-2.0-2.0-2.0-2.0-2.0-2.0-2.0-2.0-2.0-2.0-2.0-2.0-2.0-2.0-2.0-2.0-2.0-2.0-2.0-2.0-2.0-2.0-2.0-2.0-2.0-2.0-2.0-2.0-2.0-2.0-2.0-2.0-2.0-2.0-2.0-2.0-2.0-2.0-2.0-2.0-2.0-2.0-2.0-2.0-2.0-2.0-2.0-2.0-2.0-2.0-2.0-2.0-2.0 1 Jan 2019 1 Jan 2019 generale overview of the jujitsu game. If you are new to BJJ, this video will get you conversationaly fluent on the five primary positions of BJJ, both offensively and defensively. We'll start with closed guard, the signature position of jujitsu. There's also an open guard variant which will get to in a bit. It can be more dynamic and complex, so most beginners start by learning how to play closed guard. In this image, you'll see that Jordan, wearing black, has me in his guard. It might be counterintuitive, but Jordan has most of the offensive options from this position, giving him the advantage. I have very few options in this position. My best option is to try to get out from within his legs. We call this passing the guard. Here's the classic way to pass the closed guard. I start by getting posture, putting one knee up the middle, creating pressure on Jordan's legs to open them, pinning one leg, then cutting across with my knee, transitioning to side control. When you're in someone's guard, you are generally safe from attacks when you're sitting tall. We call that being postured up. Or, you're safe when you're down low, especially when you control your opponent's biceps. It's this middle range where you are most vulnerable to attacks. Avoid this position. So what can you do offensively from the closed guard? The classic attack is the arm lock. We use our entire body to immobilize the arm, and break the elbow. I pull Jordan's arm across my center line, cut the angle, throwing my left leg up and over, then elevating my hips to get the tap. Probably the most iconic attack from closed guard is the triangle choke. I push one of Jordan's arms out of position and throw my legs over his shoulder. You'll notice this forces one of Jordan's arms to the inside, while the other arm is on the outside. I pull that arm across so it applies pressure to the carotid artery on one side of his neck. Grab my shin, cut the angle, and triangle my legs. The blood supply to the brain has now been effectively shut off. If Jordan doesn't tap, he'll go unconscious in a few seconds. Another classic attack from the closed guard is the shoulder lock we call the Kimura. The rule of thumb is to never put your hands on the mat and you're in someone's closed guard. Here, I trap Jordan's wrist, create space, and sit up. Figure for my own arms, drop back, lock my legs together, and rotate to break the shoulder. We can also capture the arm by swimming under and forcing it to the mat. In Chujitsu, our legs become effective weapons. Here, I'll attack the shoulder using one of my legs. We call this technique the Omoplata, which means shoulder and Portuguese. We can also get the Omoplata when our opponents hide their arm in an attempt to deny the triangle choke. We can also get the Omoplata when our opponents hide their arm in an attempt to deny the triangle choke. Chaining submissions together is the hallmark of a more advanced Chujitsu practitioner. Or we can go in the other direction. When Jordan postures up to prevent the Omoplata, we can go back to the triangle. Or from the triangle, we can hit a wrist lock. Or go back to the arm lock. If you attempt an arm lock and they pull their arm out, you can transition to the triangle. Or if they pull their arm out, attack the opposite arm for the reverse arm lock. Learning to chain techniques together will make you far more effective. A variety of chokes are available from the closed guard as well, such as the classic cross collar choke. The palm up palm down choke. The loop choke. A compression choke when they defend against the palm down choke. The simple fist choke will get the job done as well. One of the most iconic chokes is the guillotine. Here I'm setting it up off of a Kimura attempt. Chaining techniques together is where it's at. Sweeps are also available from guard. A sweep is a reversal of position by taking someone's balance away. This is the classic scissor sweep. When you're having a heavy, you can chain an arm lock right off of the scissor sweep. When someone stacks you to defend the arm lock, you can cut under and sweep them and hit the arm lock just the same. The hip bump sweep is a classic. We take them over and finish with a Kimura from side control. Even a simple thigh sweep is possible when you break down your opponent's posture. Now let's look at defense from close guard. Generally you want to pass your opponent's guard in order to get to a more dominant position. There are many strategies for passing the guard. This is the classic knee cut pass. We can also pass the guard by going under our opponent's leg, blocking their head, sprawling and applying pressure. A double under pass lets us flip our opponent's over where we can transition directly to a choke. Now let's talk about open guard, a more advanced and dynamic form of guard than closed guard. While there are many different types of open guard and we'll look at a few, they all have a similar goal. To deny your opponent the ability to move freely. We accomplish that by pulling, pushing and hooking with different combinations of our arms and legs. Here's the De La Heva guard where I capture my opponent's ankle, hook my in step around the near leg, and push the far leg away to create an imbalance. From the De La Heva we can sit up, punch their arm through, capture the collar, sweep them over and come up to the top. Spider guard is another popular form of open guard where you capture a sleeve and put your foot in the biceps. Some people prefer to play spider guard with both feet in their opponent's biceps. Either way, by pulling with our arms and pushing with our feet we immobilize our opponents. A popular attack is to sweep our opponent then go directly to an arm lock. Another great option from spider guard is the triangle choke. Just tilt your foot forward, slide it past the arm for a tight choke. Like most forms of open guard, La So Guard attempts to immobilize your opponent through pulling and entangling. A variety of attacks are possible from La So Guard. Here I circle underneath and kick through to the Omoplata. Butterfly guard is another option in which you slide in tightly and use your instep to lift and sweep your opponent over. With shin guard, you connect your shin to your opponent's shin, rotate in and lift to off balance them. Here I'm using shin guard to control the leg and attack for a foot lock. While there are too many forms of open guard to cover here, one of my favorite ways to play open guard is to get my feet on my opponent's hips and stretch them out. I typically use this setup to sweep and attack for an arm lock. Let's talk about passing the open guard. Although there are specific strategies to deal with specific types of guards, generally they all attempt to get past the legs in one of several ways. You can go around the legs. You can go through the legs. You can go over the legs. You can go over the legs. Or you can go under the legs. There's one other type of guard that deserves notable mention because it's so common, and that's half guard. Half guard is played with one of your legs in between your opponent's legs and one of your legs on the outside. The old school way is where you triangle your legs together. This leg configuration is called Z guard, and this is the knee shield. When playing half guard from the bottom, it's critically important to stay on your side. If you let yourself get flattened out, you'll have very few movement options. Allowing yourself to get flattened out also makes it much more likely that your opponents will be able to get past your half guard, putting them into a more dominant position. Staying on your side in half guard and with good posture lets you play the position effectively. Here I use the position to attack for a Kimura. And here's a classic choke called the Ezekiel. And by diving deep to the inside, you can sweep your opponent and get to side control. It should be clear by now that the guard, whether it's closed guard, half guard, or the many forms of open guard, is an incredibly deep position with a myriad of offensive and defensive options. Jujitsu players might spend years mastering the intricacies of their favorite open guard techniques. Now let's look at side control. Inside control, you position yourself perpendicular to your opponent. It's a dominant offensive position when you're on top, and it can be a very difficult position to escape from when you're on the bottom. Some people like to play side control with their knees up against their opponent's body while controlling their opponent's head and arm. Other people prefer to sprawl their back leg. Others prefer to position both arms on the other side. It's also common to use your arm to block the hip in some situations. The goal is always to deny movement options, especially denying your opponent's hip mobility. Let's look at a few offensive attacks from side control. First, if you switch your base, you can step over to attack for a near side arm bar. Next, by rolling your shoulder, you can expose the far side arm for a shoulder lock. We call this the Americana. Sometimes your opponent will straighten their arm to defend, leading to a straight arm lock. Or if they swim their arm all the way around to defend, we can transition to a far side arm bar. While we're here, I'll mention a closely related position called Kesa Gata Me, which means scarf hold in Japanese. Kesa can be a very dominant position with a number of attacks, including the straight arm lock, the Americana, or even a choke. So how do we escape side control if we're on the bottom? First, we must get our hands into posture. What I mean by that is one arm goes under their neck, cupping their shoulder, and the other arm connects to their hip. Now I can bridge, hold that space open, insert my knee, and recover closed guard. Always get your arms into posture right away, then you can bridge and recover. Another option is to swim the top arm in, go belly down, and sweep them over to side control. This escape option is called the ghost. I swim my bottom arm in, swivel out, and finish with a dars choke. Now let's look at the mount. Arguably the most dominant position when you're on top, and the most disadvantaged position when you're on the bottom, especially in a self defense situation where punches are being thrown. Like other positions in Juchitsu, the mount offers a variety of attack options such as the arm bar. I'll trap the arm, slide up, gather the forearm, windshield wipe or my leg for control, and take the arm lock. If our opponent defends their arm by hiding it, we can transition to the other side and take the exposed arm. Or we can use our leg to break their grip. Or even pull both arms in to expose the far arm for the Americana. Chokes are also available from mount. Here's the classic cross collar choke. Here's the palm up palm down choke. The fist choke works both in ghee or no ghee. Or I can grab my own sleeve and make a fist, pull it across for the Ezekiel choke. The triangle choke is also an option. I slide up, pin the arm, step over, and tighten. While I'm here, I might attack for the arm lock, or pull the arm across and finish the choke. Defensively, there are several ways to escape mount. Here's the classic trapping roll escape. A break Jordan's posture, trap the arm and pin it, block the foot and bridge over. Another option is to frame on their hip, get to our side, drag their foot over, extract our leg, then perform a series of hyp escapes to recover into closed guard. If you prefer, you can hook the foot to extract your leg, and instead of recovering to closed guard, we can go to half guard and even hit the sweep we looked at earlier. These are just some of the ways we can get out of mount. Okay, newbies, now let's talk about neon belly. Neon belly can be a very dominant position offensively once you learn how to control the position dynamically, and it can be a very difficult position to escape from defensively. What's most important to being able to stay in the neon belly position is having a wide, solid, athletic base. Typically, you'll get to neon belly from side control. First, you'll make a fist with your thumb in the collar, posting your fist on the mat, then frame on the hip and in one motion jump up. When you're first learning how to plane neon belly, it's important to master the various transition drills so you can go from one side to the other. Although Jordan isn't moving in this drill, typically you'll transition in response to escape attempts keeping yourself in the position. So what can we do offensively from neon belly? The classic attack is the baseball choke. It's called the baseball choke because of the position of the choking hands gripping the collar the way you would grip a baseball bat. We then kill the near side arm with our knee, pivot on it, straighten our arms and apply the choke. You can also get to neon belly directly off of the guard pass. A common reaction is for your opponents to push on the knee, that can lead directly to the arm bar. A major goal of Jiu Jitsu is to be able to link techniques together. So how do we escape from neon belly? One way is to capture the sleeve, trap the arm with your knee, then secure the pant leg with your other hand and pressure them over. Another creative escape involves swiveling, cutting under your opponent to topple them. Because you're supporting their entire weight, if you can capture the pharney and rotate, you'll be able to exploit their instability. A common escape is to bridge out and take the back. First, you'll cup the knee with your inside arm so they can't arm bar you. Next, you'll bridge slightly to reduce friction, then escape out the back. Another escape involves scooping under their shin, toppling them into a heel hook. Now, keep in mind that at many academies, at White Belt, you're not allowed to perform heel hooks due to the devastation it can cause to someone's knee. I show this escape only to illustrate the many escape possibilities. The last position we'll look at is the back. Controlling the back typically involves getting an under hook and an over hook with your arms. We call this the seat belt or the harness. Controlling the back also involves wrapping your legs around your opponent. We call this getting your hooks in. In Juditsu, we refer to feet as hooks. The classic back attack is the rear naked choke. In Portuguese, they call the rear naked choke the mataleon, the lion killer. Arm bars are also possible from the back. To perform the arm bar from the back, you'll fall to the under hook side. We call this the weak side. Then, push on their hip with your foot to drop them into the pocket, then push on their head and throw your leg over. The triangle choke is another great option from the back. The initial setup is the same as the arm bar, only you want to trap their arm with your leg. Grab your own shin, tip them over and scoot up to secure the triangle. Okay, so how do we escape from back control? The best escapes involve prevention. If I don't let my opponent get a seat belt, then I can simply slide down low, kick out to remove one hook, then rotate to my knees. If your opponent did manage to get seat belt control, just fall to the weak side and get your shoulders to the mat. You also want to get control of the top knee and punch it up to create space so you can get out. There are many variations on this basic escape concept. I did another video on my favorite way to escape the back, so be sure to check that out.